Add documentation for Electrolux integration (#45462)
home-assistant/home-assistant.github.io: source/_integrations/electrolux.markdown

---
title: Electrolux
description: Instructions on how to set up the Electrolux official integration within Home Assistant.
ha_release: 2026.6
ha_iot_class: Cloud Push
ha_codeowners:
  - '@electrolux-oss'
ha_domain: electrolux

> ha_integration_type: integration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ha_integration_type: hub
```

ha_config_flow: true
ha_category:
  - Sensor
ha_platforms:
  - sensor
ha_quality_scale: bronze
related:
  - url: https://developer.electrolux.one/documentation
    title: Electrolux Group for Developers documentation
---

> The **Electrolux** {% term integrations %} enables users to connect and control their home appliances via the [official third-party API](https://developer.electrolux.one).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **Electrolux** {% term integrations %} lets you to connect and control their home appliances via the [official third-party API](https://developer.electrolux.one).
```
Where possible, we avoid the term "user" and use you instead. 
https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/style-guide/a-z-word-list-term-collections/u/user-end-user

[Electrolux Group](https://www.electroluxgroup.com/) is a global appliance manufacturer that designs and produces solutions for taste, care, and wellbeing experiences. The company develops and sells products under several consumer brands, including **Electrolux**, **AEG**, and **Frigidaire**.

## Use cases

- Monitor multiple sensors of Electrolux Group appliances and trigger automations based on sensor data.
- Track the status of the appliances.

{% note %}
Note that feature availability may vary depending on the appliance model.
{% endnote %}

## Supported devices

The integration supports the following appliance types:

- **Oven**

## Prerequisites

1. Log in to the [Electrolux Group for Developers](https://developer.electrolux.one/login) site using the same account you use in the Electrolux Group mobile apps.
2. Navigate to the **Dashboard**.
3. Create a new **API key**.
4. Generate the **Access Token** and **Refresh Token**.

> Once these credentials are obtained, you can use them to configure the Electrolux Group integration in Home Assistant.

Reviewer: Throughout the docs, the integration is sometimes referred to as "Electrolux Group". But the name in the header and file is "Electrolux". Which name is the correct integration name?

Author: The correct name for the integration is "Electrolux". I thought I updated this everywhere, but it looks like I have missed it in some places (our developer portal has Electrolux Group in the name, so that name will still be present, just not for the integration)

Refresh Token:
    description: "The refresh token used to renew your access token."
{% endconfiguration_basic %}

## Supported functionality

The **Electrolux** integration provides the following entities.

{% note %}
Entity availability depends on the appliance type and model. Some entities may not be supported by certain appliances and could appear as unavailable or not appear at all.
{% endnote %}

### Sensors

{% details "List of sensors" %}

- **Appliance state**
  - **Description**: Reports the current appliance state.
  - **Available for appliance types**: Oven.
- **Current temperature**
  - **Description**: Reports the current cavity temperature.
  - **Available for appliance types**: Oven.
- **Food probe state**
  - **Description**: Reports the food probe state.
  - **Available for appliance types**: Oven.
- **Food probe temperature**
  - **Description**:  Reports food probe temperature.
  - **Available for appliance types**: Oven.
- **Remote control**
  - **Description**: Reports the remote control status.
  - **Available for appliance types**: Oven.

{% enddetails %}

## Known limitations

> - The Electrolux Group third-party API does not provide full parity with the mobile app. Some options, or settings available in the app may be unavailable or limited when accessed through the API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The Electrolux Group third-party API does not provide full parity with the mobile app. Some options or settings available in the app may be unavailable or limited when accessed from Home Assistant.
```
Via API sounds a bit technical to me.
